ABSTRACT

It is crucial to understand various factors of depopulation when studying population changes. The aim of this study is to examine population changes of small and medium sized cities generated by planned cities under government-led projects and to present policy alternatives. The study set Gongju City as a study area since it experiences the most severe depopulation among surrounding cities around Sejong Special Autonomous City developed under government-led projects. In addition, it conducted a comparative analysis by dividing each of the seven local governments into both content range (Yeosu City, Jeongeup City, and Haenam County) and spatial range (Gongju City, Hongseong County, Buyeo County, Yesan County, and Mungyeong City). Three local governments sorted as the content range have been continuously experienced depopulation due to main factors such as low birth late or aging. There were three common factors to explain the depopulation in local governments belonged to content range. First, the lack of jobs was one of the factors of depopulation. Since conglomerates and public enterprises which the younger generations wanted to work for were mostly located in capital or metropolitan areas, the population ratios in small and medium were aging and the population of the younger people keep decreasing. Second, qualities of education systems was one of the factors of depopulation. Educational systems in small and medium sized cities was inferior to local metropolitan cities so people move to bigger cities to have better educational services and it caused continuous depopulation. Third, insufficient public facilities were one of the factors of depopulation. Since the local governments could not fully provide facilities needed, residents who felt uncomfortable with this moved to other areas and it caused continuous depopulation. Regarding the spatial range, this study categorized societies, institutions, and policies largely into four factors about five local governments including the study area, Gongju City, and presented policy alternatives on populations of Gongju City.
First, this study compared baby bonus policies. As a result of comparing baby bonus policies, it was found that Mungyeong City supported a larger amount of baby bonus than other local governments. In the case of Gongju City, it supported a similar level of baby bonus to other local governments except Mungyeong City.
Second, this study compared child care benefit policies. It was shown that each local government supports various policies on child care benefits. In the case of Gongju City, it did not support practical items but only single use items.
Third, this study compared relocation subsidies. Similar to child care benefits, it was shown that each local government supports various policies on relocation subsidies. The relocation subsidies of Mungyong City was investigated as the most outstanding among those cities. On the other hand, the relocation subsidies of Gongju City was investigated as the poorest comparing to other local governments.
Fourth, this study compared agro migration subsidies. In case of agro migration subsidies, there was a no big difference among local governments. Mungyeong City supported necessary curriculum in agro migration. In the case of Gongju City, it had similar policies to Hongseong County. However, Gongju City did not support the curriculum which Mungyeong City does.
As a result of categorizing societies, institutions, and policies largely into four factors about five local governments including the study area, Mungyeong City executed outstanding policies among other local governments but policies of the others were similar level.
In conclusion, in previous studies, aims were mainly to focus on analyzing the characters of overall changes in depopulation and demographic structures, and to analyze problems and solutions according to depopulation types. However, this study investigated how special laws promulgated by the government could affect  surrounding cities’ population, and analyzed the causes of depopulation of surrounding cities affected by the government policies, and suggested solutions. In that regard, there was a difference between previous studies and this study.
Keywords: Formation of government-led planned cities, depopulation, population changes in the surrounding cities, population policies by local governments
